# Appendices S1 and S2 - Construction and filtering of benchmark networks

## Appendix S1

We constructed networks for each ecoregion by combining multiple benchmarks and assessing the ability of each network to represent its respective ecoregion for the four surrogates. We assessed network representation using a target-based method and the MDR value. The MDR-based representation targets were based on the proportional coverage of the surrogates within networks. This required that the study region maps of continuous surrogates be assigned to classes. CMI was classified using class widths of 5 cm water/yr, GPP and LED were classified into class widths of 0.05 kg C/m2/yr and 0.05 km/km2 respectively. Representation was assessed by comparing the area of each class inside the network to MDR-based targets for the ecoregion. MDR-based targets for each class were calculated by multiplying the proportion of the class in the ecoregion by the MDR. For example, if the class made up 10% of the ecoregion, the target would be 0.1 x MDR. For an MDR-based target to be achieved, a single benchmark in the network must contain at least 90% of the target area. We used a 90% threshold because requiring the full target to be met limited the networks available for analysis. The MDR-based targets were first assessed for networks made up of one benchmark, if all targets were not met, additional benchmarks were iteratively added until all targets were met. 

## Appendix S2

To remove redundant networks that had very high levels of overlap, we used a grid-based clustering method. Individual benchmarks were assigned IDs based on a 10km grid and benchmarks with a centroid falling in the same grid cell received the same ID. Networks were then clustered into groups with matching combinations of benchmarks IDs. The best network from each cluster was selected as the one with the lowest Euclidean distance value for the four biophysical criteria, calculated using a vector of the four surrogate dissimilarity values. Dissimilarity values were calculated by comparing the surrogates’ distribution in each network to its distribution in the ecoregion. For the three continuous surrogates, GPP, CMI and LED, we used the Kolmogorov-Smirnov (KS) statistic. For the categorical LCC surrogate we used the Bray-Curtis statistic. We found this method to be good at clustering highly overlapping networks and therefore reducing redundancy in the network sample.
